# WoW-IO: a Gaming-Based Storage Trace Generator for Edge Computing

Workload traces play a crucial role in the design and evaluation of storage systems. They are used for evaluating system performance and optimizing aspects such as data access speeds, energy consumption, and load balancing. Most publicly available traces were collected in cloud environments, which limits their ability to represent workloads in user-centric and highly disaggregated settings such as edge systems. 

WoW-IO is an open-source object trace generator based on the popular video game `World of Warcraft'. WoW-IO uses, as input, logs of in-game avatar information from the game's servers. 
Refer to "WoW-IO: a Gaming-Based Storage Trace Generator for Edge Computing" for the description of the principles and assumptions used in the design of WoW-IO, how the generated traces can be used to evaluate various aspects of an edge storage-system design, and how the trace format can be extended to reflect additional details and complex usage scenarios.

## Project Usage and Information

### Project Structure
- Modules: The runtime-representation objects of the dataset and scenes.
- Scripts: The scripts for the actions available with wow.py.
- Maps:
    - cities.csv – describes the location and type of all the cities in the world (generated by wow.py cities).
    - neighbors.txt – describes the neighbors-graph between zones in the world.
    - {continent}.csv – file for each continent that describes the zones in it (boundaries, number of cities per city type).
    - {continent}.png  – image for each continent that represents the zones partitions map in that continent (generated by wow.py maps).
    - {continent}.pickle  – numpy representation for each continent that represents the zones partitions map in that continent (generated by wow.py maps).
- Graphs: The graphs for the scene length statistics (generated by wow.py stats).
- Scenes: The scenes created from the dataset (generated by wow.py build).
- IOs: The output IO streams per scene (generated by wow.py run).
- environment.yml: The conda environment initialization file (for external libraries).
- wow.py: The main script.
- conf.py: The configuration file (probabilities and city sizes).

### Raw Dataset
WoW-IO is based on the [World of Warcraft Avatar History Dataset](https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~claypool/mmsys-dataset/2011/wow/author.html) (WoWAH). WoWAH is a result of 3 years of gathering user information in World of Warcraft.  
To generate traces with WoW-IO, first download the WoWAH dataset.

### External Documentation
See the [External Documentation PDF](https://github.com/olekol33/WoW-IO/blob/main/External%20Documentation.pdf) for the complete usage information.

## Trace Samples
The `IOs` folder contains the WoW-IO-generated traces, formatted as `scene{N}_{t1}-{t2}.txt`, where 'N' represents the trace number, and 't1' and 't2' denote the start and end times of the file in seconds, respectively. Each complete trace, or 'scene', comprises several 10-minute trace files. Specifically, `IOs/Scene4` encompasses a 60-minute trace (six files), along with a 1-second preview (one file). In the related paper, what is referred to here as 'scene 4' was labeled as 'scene 1'.

## Citing WoW-IO
To cite this repository:
```
@inproceedings{WoW-IO,
  title={{WoW-IO}: a Gaming-Based Storage Trace Generator for Edge Computing},
  author={Kolosov, Oleg and Herman, Tom and Zohar, Ido and Yadgar, Gala},
  booktitle={2024 IEEE 8th International Conference on Fog and Edge Computing (ICFEC)},
  year={2024},
  organization={IEEE}
}
```
